ALEC-228: Create Quick Start section (#97)
OpenNMS/alec: docs/modules/quick-start/pages/situations.adoc

:imagesdir: ../assets/images
= Step 2: View and Create Situations

> Now that you have xref:engine-config.adoc[selected the Clustering engine], ALEC automatically begins to identify situations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have xref:engine-config.adoc[selected the clustering engine], ALEC automatically begins to identify situations.
```

This requires new alarms to be triggered within your OpenNMS environment, so--depending on your network's usual activity--this may take some time.

> 

Reviewer: We should add a short description of what the recommended user process/workflow is. Something that mentions that as they see situations, they will want to evaluate and address them. Beyond the basic monitoring through situations, they can also train the UI, which is a more advanced topic.

> == View situations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== View all situations
```

> After alarms have been triggered in OpenNMS, they are evaluated by the Clustering engine and grouped into clusters as appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After alarms have been triggered in OpenNMS, the clustering engine evaluates and groups them into situations as appropriate.
```
As per earlier question. Is there a distinction between a cluster and a situation?

> You can view current situations in the OpenNMS web UI: click *Plugins > ALEC* in the top menu bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view current situations in the OpenNMS web UI, click *Plugins > ALEC* in the top menu bar.
```

The Situation List is displayed:

.ALEC Situation List page
image::situation-list.png[ALEC Situation List page displaying active situations, 800]

Active situations are sorted from most to least severe.

> You can modify the sorting method by using the filters at the left of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the filters at the left of the screen to modify the sorting method.
```

To return to the default sorting and filtering settings, click *Reset Filters*.

> To view more information on a specific situation, click its entry in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== View a specific situation

To view more information on a specific situation, click its entry in the list.
```

The situation details page is displayed:

.Situation details page
image::situation-details.png[Situation details page for a critical situation that affects two nodes, 800]

From this page, you can acknowledge the situation (indicate that it has been seen and is being addressed), clear it (mark the situation as not relevant), or reject it (indicate that the clustered alarms are not related).

> You can also take action on individual alarms within the cluster by selecting them in the *Alarms* list.

Reviewer: Check with the devs, but I wonder if it makes more sense to address alarms first, and then clear situations.

This section might work better with a workflow like: **view all situations**, **view a specific situation**, **manage alarms** (include how to clear, acknowledge, escalate them, and the memos/sticky notes), **manage the situation**, **view the situation timeline**.

Suggest adding separate subheadings for these items so the information is easier to find. In some cases (like the memos) this could be stepped out into a procedure, but starting from within the screen. For example:
To create a memo:
1. Click the pencil symbol beside the type of memo ...
2. Type your note.
3. Click the green check symbol to save it.

> You can create memos for both the situation overall and for individual alarms.

Reviewer: What is the difference between a sticky memo and a journal memo?

Author: I'll clarify this as well.

To do so, click the *pencil* symbol beside the type of memo that you want to add, type your note, and click the *green check* symbol to save it.

To view a timeline of the situation and its associated alarms, navigate to the *Metrics* tab.
The timeline displays a graphical overview of alarm activity throughout the situation's lifetime.

.Situation timeline page
image::situation-timeline.png[Situation timeline displaying three active alarms, 800]

== Create a situation

You may occasionally notice alarms that are related, but that were not grouped into a situation.

> In these cases, you can create a situation to represent such relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these cases, you can create a situation to represent such relationships:
```

> Follow these steps to create a situation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 
> Follow these steps to create a situation:

Author: ```suggestion
```

:imagesdir: ../assets/images
= Step 2: View and Create Situations

Now that you have xref:engine-config.adoc[selected the clustering engine], ALEC automatically begins to identify situations.
This requires new alarms to be triggered within your OpenNMS environment, so--depending on your network's usual activity--this may take some time.

> As alarms are grouped into clusters, situations are created to represent their relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As alarms are grouped into clusters, ALEC creates situations to represent their relationships.
```

> It is recommended that you evaluate situations as you see them, and address them as appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that you evaluate situations as you see them, and address them as appropriate.
```
This is great. These two sentences are really helpful for the user.

== View and manage a situation

To view more information and take action on a specific situation, click its entry in the Situation List.
The situation details page is displayed:

.Situation details page
image::situation-details.png[Situation details page for a critical situation that affects two nodes, 800]

The title and description are automatically generated when the situation is created.
The First Event field is populated when the situation is created, and the Last Event field is automatically updated to indicate the most recent alarm activity.

=== Manage situation

You can take the following actions on a situation from its details page:

* *Acknowledge:* Indicate that the situation has been seen and is being addressed.
Your account will take ownership of the situation within OpenNMS.
All associated alarms will also be acknowledged, and your account will take ownership of them.
* *Clear:* Indicate that no action needs to be taken and remove the situation from the list of active situations.
All associated alarms will also be cleared.
* *Reject:* Indicate that the alarms in the situation are not related.

You can also maintain sticky memos and journal memos for the situation.

> Sticky memos are used to note key information for the situation overall (for example, the potential root cause).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sticky memos note key information for the situation overall (for example, the potential root cause).
```

> Journal memos are used to log any important work or investigation steps; this can include root cause analysis or developing a fix for the underlying issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Journal memos log any important work or investigation steps; this can include root cause analysis or developing a fix for the underlying issue.
```

Follow these steps to create a memo:

. Navigate to a situation's details page.
. Click the *pencil* symbol beside *Sticky Memo* or *Journal Memo*, as desired.

> . Type your note in the text box that is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Type your note in the text box.
```

. Click the *green check* symbol to save the memo.

=== Manage alarms

You can take the following actions on individual alarms associated with a situation:

* *Clear:* Indicate that no action needs to be taken and remove the alarm from the list of active alarms.
* *Acknowledge:* Indicate that the alarm has been seen and is being addressed.
Your account will take ownership of the alarm within OpenNMS.
* *Move:* Move the alarm to a different situation.

> This should be used when another situation more accurately encompasses an issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this when another situation more accurately encompasses an issue.
```

* *Remove:* Remove the alarm from the situation.

> This should be used when an alarm has been incorrectly associated with a situation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this when an alarm has been incorrectly associated with a situation.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The move and remove options help train ALEC to better identify relationships between alarms and more accurately cluster them into situations.

```
(If this is indeed correct.)

Follow these steps to manage individual alarms:

. Navigate to a situation's details page.
. Select an alarm from the *Alarms* list.
. Evaluate the alarm and select the appropriate action (for example, acknowlege an alarm that you will be working on).
. (Optional) Create a sticky memo or a journal memo.
** Click the *pencil* symbol beside *Sticky Memo* or *Journal Memo*, as desired.
** Type your note in the text box that is displayed.
** Click the *green check* symbol to save the memo.

=== View situation timeline

To view a timeline of the situation and its associated alarms, navigate to the *Metrics* tab on the details page.
The timeline displays a graphical overview of alarm activity throughout the situation's lifetime.

.Situation timeline page
image::situation-timeline.png[Situation timeline displaying three active alarms, 800]

== Create a situation

You may occasionally notice alarms that are related, but that were not grouped into a situation.
In these cases, you can create a situation to represent such relationships:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can also view and move unassociated alarms into existing situations.
(See xref: .... [Manage unassociated alarms].)
```
Suggest adding a topic below this "Manage unassociated alarms" that describes the process of clicking the "View Unassociated Alarms" button and then moving them to a situation. We have described the "move" feature as part of alarm management above, but it would be good to show them this route that is specific to unassociated alarms. We also need to check with Ben or Gerardo if unassociated alarms *must* be in a situation in order to manage them. I don't see a way to clear, acknowledge, or reject them from that screen.
